---
title: "Voyant Tools"
date: 2026-03-10
---
# Voyant Tools

<p>I love words. Almost more than I do history. Should a historian admit that? This week our class readings were centered on the topic of digital visualizations. A digital visualization is an important tool in a humanist's toolbox. It allows for the words on the page to convey meaning in a new form, thus creating another avenue for communicating meaning to the reader. There are a few important things to keep in mind when choosing to incorporate a digital visualization into your work. First, in order to engage with a digital visualization tool, you must have a body of research that is already digitized so as to be searchable. Secondly, the digital visualization that you choose needs to match the scope of your work. For example, if I were attempting to grasp if Jane Austen's works discuss men or women more, a tool that can search the corpus of her works and provide an analysis of her word choice based on gender would be best for my research. As I choose a visualization tool, I must keep in mind my audience. If digital visualization tool is absolutely amazing but my reader will not be able to understand how to interpret it, then it is not a good fit for my project. I will need to either provide a tutorial on how to use the tool or choose another, easier to understand, visualization tool.</p>

<p> Voyant Tools provides web-based reading and visualization tools for digital text. The user can explore the various tools that Voyant offers with a preset corpus of digitized text (you can choose from Austen or Shakespeare's works or even Shelley's Frankenstein). The user can also upload their own text to analyze. Once you have chosen your tool and analyzed your text, simply export it into whatever digital format you are using. The word cloud above displays the most frequent words in Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice. Words with greater frequency are displayed larger than those with lesser frequency. </p>